---
title: 'Personnel, Management, & Organization'
published: true
onpage_menu: true
template: sessions
---

## Personnel, Management, & Organization
_This is a list of preliminary sessions_

**ARL Diversity Fellows Around the Fireplace: The Stats, Lived Experiences, and Lessons Learned**

Joanna Chen Cham, Los Angeles as Subject, Resident Archivist, University of Southern California

Genevia Chamblee-Smith, Library Assistant, Cooley, LLP

Mario Macias, Librarian, Pierce College

Jakilah Mason, Library Associate, Gwinnett County Public Library 

Christian Minter, Education Coordinator, National Network of Libraries of Medicine, MidContinental Region

Hanni Nabahe, ARL/SAA Mosaic Fellow, University of Arizona Libraries

Chimene Tucker, Journalism and LGBT Studies Librarian, University of Southern California 

_In this roundtable, current and former fellows from each of the Association of Research Libraries' diversity 
initiatives will share how their ARL fellowships impacted their educational and professional experiences and offer 
insights and recommendations as to what program aspects were most effective for those seeking to design and improve upon their own diversity-recruiting efforts. Peer mentoring examples will also be discussed as an ongoing resource among alumni Diversity Scholars to help with career advancement._

**Format:** Roundtable | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization

___

**Being the Bridge: Exploring the Roles, Challenges, and Future Directions of Diversity Committees in Libraries**

Don P. Jason III, Clinical Informationist, University of Cincinnati Libraries

Rose L. Chou, Budget Coordinator, American University Library

Jennifer Garrett, Research Librarian for Management, Education and Social Sciences, North Carolina State University 
Libraries

Angela E. Weaver, Head, Art and Drama Libraries, University of Washington Libraries

Ann Marie Willer, Preservation Librarian, Massachusetts Institute of Technology

_This roundtable will facilitate a conversation centered on diversity committees in libraries. Five speakers will 
share their experiences building, sustaining and reinventing diversity committees at their respective institutions. 
This session hopes to be a springboard for dialogue. It will foster a free flow of information amongst the speakers and participants. This roundtable seeks to empower librarians and to create a network of collective wisdom and continued sharing that extends beyond the NDLC._

**Format:** Roundtable | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization

___

**Creating a Sustainable Plan for Diversity and Inclusion: From Awareness to Action**

Cat Phan, Digital Services Librarian, University of Wisconsin-Madison

Erin Carrillo, Information Services Librarian, University of Wisconsin-Madison 

Lori Mestre, Professor and Head, Undergraduate Library, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Kristyn Caragher, Graduate student, Graduate School of Library and Information Science, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
 
_This panel presentation will describe how two University Libraries developed aspects of programming, training, and a
 plan to integrate diversity efforts into staffing and services. Phan and Carrillo will detail their Diversity Task 
 Force efforts and Mestre and Caragher will share the Blackboard Collaborate modules and workshop series for anti-oppression and microaggressions training that were developed. They each will describe methodologies used, findings, recommendations, specific actions, and suggestions for determining accountability. They will also share the lessons learned, and facilitate a discussion on challenges moving forward to help library faculty and staff develop competencies to promote diversity and inclusion in our workplaces, and to move beyond awareness to action.  _
 
**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization
___

**Cultural Aspects and Perspectives in Health Sciences Library Services**

Patricia Bradley, Native and Distance Services Librarian, Health Sciences Library and Informatics Center, University of New Mexico*

Annabelle V Nuñez, Research & Learning Librarian, University of Arizona Health Sciences Library*

Monica Rogers, Division Head, Reference and User Support Services, Health Sciences Library and Informatics Center, University of New Mexico

Patricia Montiel-Overall, Associate Professor, University of Arizona School of Information

Verónica Reyes-Escudero, Associate Librarian/Borderlands Curator, University of Arizona Libraries

(*In attendance)

_Understanding cultural health values and beliefs is an important aspect to integrate when delivering library 
services to diverse communities. This presentation will feature a discussion on the successful outreach services 
designed to reach Native nations in New Mexico inspired by the National Library of Medicine’s Exhibit, “Native Voices.” Additionally, an embedded librarian will discuss her approach to incorporate Latino cultural assets as a framework for providing health information to her clients._

**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Programming, Outreach, and Advocacy; Personnel, Management, and Organization

___

**Diversity Standards in Action: How Do We Practice & Value Cultural Competencies?**

Mario Macías, Librarian, Los Angeles Pierce College 

Melissa Cardenas-Dow, Reference & Instruction Librarian, University of California, Riverside

Jenny Yap, Librarian, Berkeley City College

Jessica Davila Greene, STEM Librarian, Team Leader, Claremont Colleges Library

Eva Rios-Alvarado, Adjunct Librarian, Mt. SAC, GCC, & ELAC 

Susan C. Luévano, Anthropology, Ethnic, Women and Gender Studies Librarian, California State University Long Beach

Jayati Chaudhuri, Instruction & Reference Librarian, California State University, Los Angeles

_A panel of librarians will unpack the Diversity Standards developed by the Racial and Ethnic Diversity Committee of 
ACRL. How do we envision ourselves as culturally competent? How do we engage with these cultural competencies and how
 do we assess our endeavors through these Diversity Standards? What if our institutions or colleagues have not embraced the Standards? How are cultural competencies valued--both at the individual and/or institutional level? Join this interactive conversation modeled by the World Café method. _

**Format:** World Cafe method | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization

___

**Grow Your Community: An Exploration of Peer Mentoring for People of Color**

Annie Pho, Inquiry and Instruction Librarian, University of California - Los Angeles

Ariana Santiago, Instruction Librarian, University of Houston 

Eva Rios-Alvarado, Adjunct Librarian/Professor, Mt. San Antonio College, Glendale Community College & East Los Angeles College 

Mara Cabrera, Librarian I (Teen Services), Santa Monica Public Library 

Nancy Olmos Head, Metadata & Content Management, Norris Medical Library - University of Southern California 

Dr. Rebecca Davis, Information Services Librarian, Jennifer Ann Wilson Dental Library - University of Southern California 

Sojourna Cunningham, Social Science and Assessment Librarian, University of Richmond

Tarida Anantachai, Learning Commons Librarian, Syracuse University

_We will showcase examples of grassroots approaches to creating formal and informal peer mentoring groups. Peer 
mentoring led by people of color is an approach to mentorship that creates safe spaces and the ability to define a 
professional and personal identity. We will also address the challenges and opportunities presented by such models, including their effects on early career development. Join us as we discuss perspectives in creating diversity networks for collaborative growth._

**Format:** Roundtable/Panel hybrid | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization

___

**Library Associations Working for Diversity**

_This session features two presentations on what two library association groups are doing to advance diversity and 
inclusion._

**ACRL Diversity Standards Revisited: Intersectional Approach to Cultural Competency**

Kenny Garcia, Reference and Instruction Librarian, California State University - Monterey Bay

Tarida Anantachai, Learning Commons Librarian, Syracuse University

Martha A. Parker,Digital Services Librarian, University of Arkansas - Fayetteville 

Megan Watson, Research & Instruction/Education Librarian, University of Washington Bothell & Cascadia College

_The Association of College and Research Libraries (ACRL) Diversity Committee has taken up the task of revising the 
ACRL Diversity Standards for greater inclusivity. Initial feedback was gathered through a survey in the summer of 2015. This roundtable will discuss the rationale behind revising the standards, speak to the changing organizational climate in academic libraries around diversity, and share best practices on how to engage with cultural competencies at an academic library._

**Format:** Roundtable | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization
  
**We Shall Not Give Up the Fight: Lessons Learned by the ALA Task Force on Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion**

Melissa Cardenas-Dow, Reference & Instruction Librarian, University of California, Riverside

Trevor A. Dawes, Associate University Librarian, Washington University in St. Louis

Martin Garnar, Dean, Kraemer Family Library, University of Colorado Colorado Springs

Alanna Aiko Moore, Sociology, Ethnic Studies and Gender Studies Librarian, University of California, San Diego

Mark Puente, Director of Diversity and Leadership Programs, Association of Research Libraries

_After an intensive two-year process of engagement, reflection, and discernment, the ALA Task Force on Equity, 
Diversity, and Inclusion made recommendations for how the world largest library association can promote and support 
the principles of equity, diversity, and inclusion within the association, the library profession, and the larger world. A panel of task force members will share their experiences of grappling with these issues, review their final recommendations, and give advice on crafting diversity plans. _

**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization

___

**Recruiting and Retaining a Diverse Workforce: Challenges and Opportunities**

Cheryl Beredo, Kheel Center Director, Cornell University

Jade Alburo, Librarian for Southeast Asian and Pacific Islands Studies, UCLA

Tessa Dover, PhD student, Self & Social Identity Lab, University of California, Santa Barbara

April Hathcock, Scholarly Communications Librarian, New York University Libraries

Mark A. Puente, Director of Diversity and Leadership Programs, Association of Research Libraries
 
_This roundtable will facilitate a constructive conversation about the challenges and opportunities in our 
profession’s attempts to recruit and retain a diverse workforce. Panelists and audience members will discuss the 
issues involved, successes, and shortcomings in work at organizational, inter-institutional, and national levels. Participants will have an opportunity to learn about diversity initiatives in different contexts, discuss the merits of different approaches, and develop an understanding of what a successful program might look like in their context. _
 
**Format:** Roundtable | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization

___

**Scaling Up: The Next Level of Diversity and Inclusion Training**

Tahirah Akbar-Williams, Education and Information Studies Librarian, University of Maryland, College Park

Cynthia Sorrell Arabic & Persian Studies Librarian, Assistant Manager of Collections University of Maryland, College Park

Wanda Brown, Director of Library Services, Winston-Salem State University

Hubert Womack, Instruction and Outreach Librarian, Wake Forest University - Z. Smith Reynolds Library

_This presentation will address diversity and inclusion training on two fronts: 1) future librarians and 2) student 
workers._

**Diversity Immersion Institute: Teaching Library Students About Diverse Populations**

_The Diversity Immersion Institute is a program created at the University of Maryland, College Park to educate future
 librarians about diversity issues.  This seven day Institute will expose future librarians to issues of diversity 
 and inclusion via a series of activities, such as, readings, journaling, introspection, group discussions and feedback from diverse librarians of color.  The purpose of this Institute is to allow individuals who have not been exposed to diverse populations a chance to explore the myriad of diversity issues they will encounter in the workforce and in life. Future librarians will also get an opportunity to teach sessions with faculty of color and create and execute programs for students of color.  Moreover, this program will help future librarians understand how they can become advocates of issues of diversity within their professional lives. _

**“Serving Diverse Populations”: A Diversity, Inclusion, and Service Workshop Model for Library Student Assistants**

_The Z. Smith Reynolds Library at Wake Forest University values the library as a place where everyone is welcome, and
 is committed to providing faculty and staff with ample opportunities for diversity and inclusion training. The ZSR 
 Library decided to take this one step further and offer this training to our 200+ student workers. Our presentation will describe the student learning session entitled “Serving Diverse Populations” and the exercises we designed._

**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization

___

**Turning Commitment into Action: Creating a Successful Diversity Plan for Your Library**

Kathryn Kjaer, Head, Library Human Resources, University of California, Irvine Libraries 

Sheree Baugh, Marketing & Donor Relations Assistant, University of California, Irvine Libraries 

Azadeh Vosoughian, Organizational Development, Assessment, and Grants Analyst, University of California, Irvine Libraries 

_This workshop will explore several aspects of developing and implementing an organizational diversity plan. The 
presenters will share information on existing library diversity plans as well as lessons learned from their recent 
planning experience at the University of California, Irvine Libraries. The workshop will include small group breakout sessions in which participants will discuss and explore issues faced by libraries that aspire to create and support a culture of diversity and inclusive excellence. _

**What We Do Matters: KU Libraries and Social Justice**

Sofia Leung, Learning Studio Librarian, University of Kansas

Mike Broadwell, Executive Director of Administrative Services, University of Kansas 

Tami Albin, Associate Librarian, University of Kansas 

Sean Barker, Program Coordinator for the Office of Scholarly Communication and Copyright, University of Kansas

_This panel of staff, faculty, and administrators from the University of Kansas Libraries, offers perspectives on 
meeting the challenges posed by student activists. We will discuss how our response to a town hall forum on race 
developed and our efforts to create a multi-faceted approach to integrating social justice into our organizational structure. We will end with facilitated group discussions on how others might attempt to change their institutional cultures and consider potential challenges._

**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization

___

**Why We Stay: The Motivation of Veteran Underrepresented Minority Academic Librarians**

Antonia P. Olivas, Ed.D., Education & Sociology Librarian, California State University San Marcos

Shannon D. Jones, Director of Libraries, Medical University of South Carolina

Binh P. Le, Associate Librarian/2015-16 Administrative Fellow, The Pennsylvania State University

_For years stories of why underrepresented minorities leave the profession have dominated library literature.  
Panelists will discuss the challenges they have faced in the profession but also discuss their motivations to stay 
and seek leadership opportunities in academic libraries.  These veteran librarians will discuss strategies that have worked for them and what advice they would give to others that could help increase retention numbers of underrepresented minority academic librarians._

**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization

___

**Diversity Inquiry – Bridging the Divide Between Diversity Survey Results and Actionable Understanding **

Cristela Garcia-Spitz, Digital Library Development Project Manager, ClimateQUAL Implementation Team Co-Chair, UC San Diego Library

Heather Hayashi, Public Services Assistant, ClimateQUAL Implementation Team Member, UC San Diego Library

Cindy Ingold, Gender Studies and Multicultural Services Librarian, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign

Brian W. Keith, Associate Dean for Administrative Services & Faculty Affairs George A. Smathers Libraries, University of Florida 

Jennifer E. Knievel, Associate Professor / Director of Arts & Humanities, University of Colorado Boulder Libraries

Michael M. Rawls, Budget and Assessment Director, Virginia Commonwealth University Libraries 

Leslie J. Reynolds , Associate Professor / Senior Associate Dean, University of Colorado Boulder Libraries

_This presentation will cover climate assessments from start to finish. Panelists from five institutions will discuss
 lessons learned for each step: motivations for a climate assessment; instrument selection; building trust and 
 encouraging participation; interpreting results and communicating results; prioritizing attention areas; interventions; and outcome assessment. Presenters will address a variety of climate assessment tools including ClimateQUAL® and home-grown surveys, and an array of data visualizations, communication methods, results assessments, and diversity action plans._

**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization

___

**Exploring Identity and Culture in Libraries Using Practitioner Inquiry and Cultural Humility**

This session features two presentations about different ways of learning about and dealing with diversity.

**Discerning Our Diverse Selves: Practitioner Inquiry for Librarian Praxis**

Vanessa Irvin, Assistant Professor, Library and Information Science Program, University of Hawai’i at Mānoa 

_An important aspect of cultural competence for library service includes a librarian’s consideration for his/her own 
identity constructs that impact one’s praxis at work. Practitioner Inquiry is a reflective process that can heighten 
culturally competent professional practices. This session explores ways in which practitioner inquiry opens up critical space where librarians can collaboratively explore critical questions that when reflected upon as group process, can serve as significant contribution to librarians offering culturally competent services._

**Mastering Competencies or Practicing Humility:  Contemplating Culture in Libraries**

David Hurley, Assistant Professor, College of the University Libraries & Learning Sciences, University of New Mexico 

Sarah Kosteleck, Assistant Professor, College of the University Libraries & Learning Sciences, University of New Mexico

Lori Townsend, Assistant Professor, College of the University Libraries & Learning Sciences, University of New Mexico

_With ethnic tension and related issues of privilege, equity and structural discrimination making news on campuses 
and in communities around the nation, many organizations are considering “cultural competency” programs. Yet cultural
 competence is itself a problematic concept. In this session, we introduce the concept of cultural humility, an alternative to cultural competence that comes from the medical fields, explore how it differs from competence and its potential benefits to libraries of all kinds._

**Format:** Individual Presentations | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization

___


**Identity and Librarianship: Race, Ethnicity, and Normativity in Academic Libraries and LIS Diversity Initiatives**
This session features two thought-provoking presentations on identity in/and librarianship from two different perspectives. 

**Identity at Play: Exploring Race and Ethnicity in Academic Libraries and Beyond**

Juleah Swanson, Head of Acquisition Services, University of Colorado Boulder

Azusa Tanaka, Japanese Studies Librarian, University of Washington

Isabel Gonzalez-Smith, Undergraduate Experience Librarian, University of Illinois Chicago
 
_Why do mentoring programs that pair Black male librarians see success? Why does a Muslim student approach a 
librarian wearing a hijab first at the reference desk? Can an instruction session become enriched when a librarian 
shares personal stories about being first-generation? This panel presentation is an immersion into racial and ethnic identity theory, applied as a framework, in order for participants to develop skills and vocabulary to articulate, recognize, and apply at their institutions._
 
**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Personnel, Management and Organization

___

**Leading by Example: A Look at Successful LIS Diversity Initiatives**

Denise Kane, Reference & Instruction Librarian, University of California Riverside

Julie Mason, Science Reference Librarian, University of California Riverside 

Angela Boyd, Librarian for International Organizations / NGO Documents, Psychological & Brain Sciences, University of California Santa Barbara  

Gina Macaluso, Assistant Professor, University of Arizona School of Information 

Yamila El-Khayat, Assistant Librarian, University of Arizona Health Sciences Library

Maurita Baldock, Assistant Librarian, University of Arizona Libraries Special Collections

Verónica Reyes-Escudero, Associate Librarian, University of Arizona Libraries Special Collections

Amber Mathewson, Deputy Director, Pima County Public Library

Charlene Maxey-Harris, Associate Professor of Libraries and Research and Information Services Chair, University of Nebraska-Lincoln

Toni Anaya, Associate Professor of Libraries and Instruction Coordinator, University of Nebraska-Lincoln 

_Since 2001 initiatives aiming to increase the number of librarians from ethnically/culturally underrepresented 
groups flourished as libraries raced to meet the diverse needs of their users.  National programs such as Knowledge 
River and Spectrum, and University of California Santa Barbara’s innovative and then controversial Library Fellowship program, and regional programs such as University of California Riverside’s Inland Empire LEADS (Librarians Educated to Advance Diversity & Service), aim to shape the future of librarianship and libraries. This program will present research on these programs, discuss the long term impact they had on the face of profession and how developing partnerships play a vital role in their success._
 
**Format:**  Panel | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization

___

**Maybe We’re the Problem: Bias, Blindspots, and the Politics of Experience**

Steve Whitley, Visiting Coordinator & Lecturer, Intergroup Dialogue,University of Illinois at Chicago

Chloe Gurin-Sands, Teaching Assistant, Intergroup Dialogue, University of Illinois at Chicago

_The UIC Dialogue Initiative runs courses and co-curriculars for students, faculty, and staff at UIC centered around 
understanding identity, power/privilege, and bias. This hands-on workshop will give participants a chance to 
experience dialogue and engage in some of the activities we do in the classroom. Our activities will focus on your social identities and how they carry over to your work as a librarian. _

**Format:** Workshop | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization; Challenging Topics



