---
title: Program
published: true
template: sessions
content:
    items: '@root.children'
    
---

# Preliminary Program Sessions

## Collections & Access

**Do We Walk the Walk, or Just Talk the Talk? Library Practices around Intersectional Needs**

Melissa Villa-Nicholas, Ph.D. student, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Graduate School of Library and Information Science 

Jeanie Austin, Ph.D. student, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Graduate School of Library and Information Science

Christina J. Woo, Research Librarian, University of California, Irvine
 
_This panel examines how library practices represent racial, gender, and sexual norms through core functions, 
including collections, instruction, and programming. The presenters analyze how libraries reproduce and resist racism
 and heteronormativity, and how those productions of knowledge reflect or reject the larger communities. How does your library approach immigrants'/migrants' needs?  How do LGBTQ+ youth evaluate library materials specific to their experience and identity?  How do you include the under-represented in your library's spaces, webpages, and publications?_
 
**Format:**  Panel | **Track:** Programming, Outreach, and Advocacy; Collections and Access

___

**Latino Digital Archives Group**

Lillian Castillo-Speed, Head Librarian, Ethnic Studies Library, University of California, Berkeley

Norma Corral, Latino Digital Archive Group, Advisory Committee Member / UCLA Librarian, Retired

Kathryn Blackmer Reyes, Librarian, San Jose State University 

Richard Chabran, Adjunct Instructor, Adjunct Instructor, California State University, Los Angeles 

_The Latino Digital Archive Group (LDAG) was formed to explore the establishment of a Latino digital archive to 
digitally preserve all aspects of U.S. Latino history.  The Latino Digital Heritage Kit uses the Mukurtu CMS to 
engage communities in preserving their history through creating Latino digital collections. LDAG has two components:  1. facilitating heritage fairs that will provide learning opportunities and hands-on use of technology; 2. bringing together information professionals and representatives of state and national digital initiatives to lend their expertise by teaching concepts related to digital technology._

**Format:** Roundtable | **Track:** Collections and Access

___

**Missing in the Archives: Uncovering Underrepresented Voices**

Eleanor Brown, Head, Special Collections Research Center, North Carolina State University

Virginia Ferris, NCSU Libraries Fellow, North Carolina State University

Julia Huddleston, Archivist, University of Utah 

Twanna Hodge, Diversity Resident Librarian, University of Utah

_Archives and archivists are entrusted with preserving and providing access to the histories of communities and 
people, which includes documenting the diversity and changing needs of those communities and people. This session 
explores the challenges of locating voices of underrepresented communities in archival research, and discusses efforts to create a more inclusive record in the archives. The speakers will examine the ways in which archives can either establish or build upon past efforts for diverse holdings, using examples of case studies, oral histories, collection development policies, collaborative outreach programs, staff training and online programs._

**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Collections and Access

___

**Seeing Yourself in the Library and Creating Communities with Special Collections: Outreach and Inclusion with 
Latino, Latin American, and African American Programming and Instruction**

Cristine Paschild, Head of Special Collections, Portland State University Library

Barbara Robinson, Librarian, Boeckmann Center for Iberian & Latin American Studies, Special Collections, USC Libraries

Felix Gutierrez, Prof. Emeritus of Journalism, USC

Liana Stepanyan, Assistant Professor (Teaching) of Spanish, USC

Tyson Gaskill, Executive Director, Communications and Events, USC Libraries

Anne-Marie Maxwell, Editor/Writer/Curator, Communications and Events, USC Libraries

_Panelists from Portland State University and University of Southern California will present examples of successful 
programming and outreach with Special Collections to address cultural and linguistic diversity and build community.  
They will offer perspectives of librarians, faculty and staff who effectively use local collections and primary resources for community engagement, events, exhibitions, publications and instruction.  Drawing upon the cultural and academic centrality of the library as a way to raise visibility and foster inclusivity, the panelists will illustrate the potential for Special Collections as a hub for community connections and collaborations on campus and beyond._

**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Collections and Access

___

**The Structure of Accessible Content: Building a Bridge to Understanding**

Kelli Ham, Consumer Health and Technology Coordinator, National Network of Libraries of Medicine, Pacific Southwest Region, UCLA Biomedical Library 

Patrick Burke, Coordinator, UCLA Office of Information Technology, Disabilities and Computing Program

_Digital content is ubiquitous, expanding information access in previously unimaginable ways. Powerful tools allow 
users to create and disseminate content in numerous formats, including complex documents, visually-intense 
presentations, and compelling multimedia. However, much of this content is inaccessible to people who have disabilities. Attend this session to see demonstrations of assistive technologies, to learn about Section 508 compliance, and to learn strategies and techniques to improve accessibility and inclusion for all users of our content. _

**Format:** Individual Presentation | **Track:** Collections and Access

___

**Telling Different Stories: Evaluating the Impact of Archives on Communities**

Michelle Caswell, Assistant Professor of Archival Studies, Department of Information Studies, UCLA

Ricky Punzalan, Assistant Professor, College of Information Studies University of Maryland

Jamie A. Lee, Assistant Professor, School of Information University of Arizona

_Community archives are independent, grassroots organizations that enable members of minoritized communities to 
document their own histories. This panel addresses how recent changes in archival practice have impacted communities 
who have not previously seen themselves represented in mainstream archives. Based on their research and practice with several communities-including Indigenous, Asian American, and queer communities-the panelists will offer new and exciting ways to think about and evaluate the impact of such archival endeavors._

**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Collections and Access

**Are We Doing Enough?: Three Stories of Diversity in Library Collections**

Eugenia Beh, Electronic Resources Librarian, MIT

Jade Alburo, Librarian for Southeast Asian and Pacific Islands Studies, UCLA

Paolo Gujilde, Coordinator of Collection Development, Georgia Southern University 
 
_Do your collections reflect the diversity of your constituents? Are you equipped to meet the diverse needs of future
 users? In light of budgetary and spatial challenges, diversity in collections may not be a priority for most 
 libraries. Yet, changing demographics practically ensures that there will be an increase in the demand for diverse materials. See how librarians from 3 different types of academic institutions from 3 different regions have been dealing with (or not) with this issue._

**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Collections and Access

___

**Building Diverse and Inclusive Collections Using Assessment and Data Visualization**

This session features two presentations on using different assessment methods to create more inclusive library collections.

Inclusion Through Collection Building: A Study of Foreign Language Collections Usage by International Students, Faculty and Staff  
Andrea Malone, Foreign Languages & Ethnic Studies, University of Houston

Current trends indicate that foreign language study in academia is in continuous flux and library collections supporting those programs are in constant change as well.  But are language programs the only reason to build foreign language collections?  International users often feel alienated when it comes to library programs, services and collections.  This study focuses on the assessment of foreign language collections to support the academic and cultural needs of international users.

Representing the Un/der-represented: Using Data Visualization to Explore Diversity and Inclusion for Academic Library Collections 
Bobby L. Smiley, Digital Scholarship and American History Librarian, Michigan State University Libraries  

Without institutional knowledge, or recent collections analysis, it is difficult to get purchase and perspective on how large research-intensive academic libraries address diversity and inclusion in their existing collections. Using Michigan State University Libraries’ collections as an example, this presentation examines how data visualization furnishes pictorial, quantitative ways to discern trends, identify gaps and silences, and assess collection strengths in diversity and inclusion to help inform future collection development decisions. 

**Format:** Individual Presentations | **Track:** Collections and Access

___

**Cataloging for Diversity: Limits in Standards and Patron Discovery**

This session features two presentations on cataloging issues when taking diversity and inclusion into account.

Sara Howard, Reference Librarian, Wesleyan University 

The problematic nature of cataloging standards is nothing new to those interested in diversity in libraries and information sciences. In 2008, a call to the profession was sent out about ways to both constructively critique and teach the problematic catalog, but how has the field responded? (Roberto & Berman). Building on this work I want to both examine and propose ways to teach the problematic catalog under a radical lens focusing on student inclusion in the conversation. 
 
**Faster Access or Perfect Metadata? The Balance in Indexing and Cataloging Oral Histories**

Summer Espinoza, Digital Collections Manager, Go for Broke National Education Center

Linh Gavin Do, Associate Archivist, Go For Broke National Education Center

Erin Sato, Assistant Archivist, Go For Broke National Education Center

_Go For Broke National Education Center (GFBNEC) is building a mixed-media digital archive of Japanese American 
military service. The project is utilizing the Oral History Metadata Synchronizer (OHMS) to index oral histories at 
the segment level and more traditional cataloging at the item level.  Tension exists between rich indexing and dissemination with use of the OHMS application and Omeka web-publishing server. The presentation will discuss these conceptual issues such as metadata migration and storage, keyword and subject thesauri development and utilization, tags, automated and manual processes and workflow processes._

**Format:** Individual Presentations | **Track:** Collections and Access

___

**Making the Invisible Visible: Diversity, Dialogue and Multicultural Awareness Through Digital Projects.**

Yemisi Dina, Associate Librarian/Head of Public Services, Osgoode Hall Law School, York University

Norda Majekodunmi, Associate Librarian/ Head, Scott Research & Collections, York University Libraries

Erin White, Web Systems Librarian, Virginia Commonwealth University

Alice Campbell, Digital Outreach and Special Projects Librarian, Virginia Commonwealth University (cannot attend, but is a co-author)

_Librarians from the Virginia Commonwealth Libraries, United States and York University/Osgoode Hall Law School 
Libraries, Canada have developed digital projects to build awareness about diversity, racial discrimination, 
religious persecution and multicultural communities. This combined presentation discusses the unique ways digital projects help us expand the library/librarians' role in promoting widespread, meaningful dialogue, historical awareness, and preservation of indigenous knowledge to diverse audiences._

**Format:** Pane | **Track:** Collections and Access; Programming, Outreach, and Advocacy

## Challenging Topics

**Bridge Over Troubled Waters: Contesting Oppression and Building Cultural Competence and Empathy in LIS Spaces **

Dr. Nicole A. Cooke, Assistant Professor, The Graduate School of Library and Information Science, University of Illinois

Dr. Robin F. Kurz, Assistant Professor, The School of Library and Information Management, Emporia State University

_With the heightened focus on diversity and inclusion in LIS spaces and other segments of U.S. society, difficult 
conversations, and often confrontation around racism and other forms of oppression, have increased in libraries, 
classrooms, and other physical and virtual settings. Two LIS educators / librarians will facilitate this roundtable discussion on informing practice through different identities, intersectionalities, and privileges, and contesting microaggressions and other forms of silencing through empathy and cultural competence. _

**Format:** Roundtable | **Track:** Challenging Topics

___

**‘Let Us Work Together’: Academic Libraries and Social Justice on Campus**

Sara Arnold-Garza, Research & Instruction Librarian, Towson University

Dave Ellenwood, Reference and Instruction Librarian, University of Washington Bothell / Cascadia College

Tami Garrard, Access Services Manager, University of Washington Bothell / Cascadia College

Cindy Ingold, Gender Studies and Multicultural Services Librarian, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

Sofia Leung, Learning Studio Librarian, University of Kansas

Megan Watson, Reference and Instruction Librarian, University of Washington Bothell / Cascadia College
 
_A new wave of student activism reminds us that libraries are central to the lives of students as a place of study, 
socializing, rest, and engagement with conversations larger than themselves. In this workshop, we will share examples
 of libraries challenging and transcending a transactional model to forge solidarities with campus communities. Join us to discuss critical frameworks around ally-ship and solidarity, and to collectively develop strategies for engaging in transformative social justice work._

**Format:** Workshop | **Track:** Programming, Outreach, and Advocacy; Challenging Topics

___

**White Librarianship in Blackface: Oppressive Normativity and Diversity Initiatives in LIS**

April Hathcock, Scholarly Communication Librarian, New York University  
 
_Whiteness “an ideological practice that can extend beyond race to other areas of dominance” has permeated every 
aspect of librarianship, including our diversity initiatives. This state of affairs, however, need not remain. This 
paper examines the ways in which whiteness controls diversity initiatives in LIS, particularly in light of the application requirements set upon candidates. I then suggest ways to correct for whiteness in LIS diversity programs by providing mentorship and concurrently working to dismantle whiteness from within._
 
**Format:** Individual Presentation | **Track:** Challenging Topics

___

**Macro Impact of Microaggression: Exploring Microaggressions in Librarianship**

Ray Lockman, Faculty Librarian, Normandale Community College, Minneapolis Community and Technical College, Hennepin County Libraries

Cynthia Mari Orozco, Student Services Librarian, California State University Long Beach

Ebony Magnus, Assessment & User Experience Librarian, SAIT Polytechnic

Simone Fujita, Liaison Librarian & Outreach Coordinator, Art Center College of Design
 
_Microaggressions are brief, commonplace indignities that continue to affect individuals from marginalized 
communities. In libraries, they can occur among and between library employees and patrons. In this roundtable 
session, we will introduce microaggressions and their impact within the library community and discuss microactivism as a proactive response to microaggressions (and macroaggressions), followed by a facilitated discussion and storytelling opportunity among participants, in which we document microaggressions on Post-its to be used for the LIS Microaggressions blog and a special NDLC zine._

**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Challenging Topics

___

**Maybe We’re the Problem: Bias, Blindspots, and the Politics of Experience**

Steve Whitley, Visiting Coordinator & Lecturer, Intergroup Dialogue,University of Illinois at Chicago

Chloe Gurin-Sands, Teaching Assistant, Intergroup Dialogue, University of Illinois at Chicago

_The UIC Dialogue Initiative runs courses and co-curriculars for students, faculty, and staff at UIC centered around 
understanding identity, power/privilege, and bias. This hands-on workshop will give participants a chance to 
experience dialogue and engage in some of the activities we do in the classroom. Our activities will focus on your social identities and how they carry over to your work as a librarian. _

**Format:** Workshop | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization; Challenging Topics

## Personnel, Management, & Organization

**ARL Diversity Fellows Around the Fireplace: The Stats, Lived Experiences, and Lessons Learned**

Joanna Chen Cham, Los Angeles as Subject, Resident Archivist, University of Southern California

Genevia Chamblee-Smith, Library Assistant, Cooley, LLP

Mario Macias, Librarian, Pierce College

Jakilah Mason, Library Associate, Gwinnett County Public Library 

Christian Minter, Education Coordinator, National Network of Libraries of Medicine, MidContinental Region

Hanni Nabahe, ARL/SAA Mosaic Fellow, University of Arizona Libraries

Chimene Tucker, Journalism and LGBT Studies Librarian, University of Southern California 

_In this roundtable, current and former fellows from each of the Association of Research Libraries' diversity 
initiatives will share how their ARL fellowships impacted their educational and professional experiences and offer 
insights and recommendations as to what program aspects were most effective for those seeking to design and improve upon their own diversity-recruiting efforts. Peer mentoring examples will also be discussed as an ongoing resource among alumni Diversity Scholars to help with career advancement._

**Format:** Roundtable | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization

___

**Being the Bridge: Exploring the Roles, Challenges, and Future Directions of Diversity Committees in Libraries**

Don P. Jason III, Clinical Informationist, University of Cincinnati Libraries

Rose L. Chou, Budget Coordinator, American University Library

Jennifer Garrett, Research Librarian for Management, Education and Social Sciences, North Carolina State University 
Libraries

Angela E. Weaver, Head, Art and Drama Libraries, University of Washington Libraries

Ann Marie Willer, Preservation Librarian, Massachusetts Institute of Technology

_This roundtable will facilitate a conversation centered on diversity committees in libraries. Five speakers will 
share their experiences building, sustaining and reinventing diversity committees at their respective institutions. 
This session hopes to be a springboard for dialogue. It will foster a free flow of information amongst the speakers and participants. This roundtable seeks to empower librarians and to create a network of collective wisdom and continued sharing that extends beyond the NDLC._

**Format:** Roundtable | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization

___

**Creating a Sustainable Plan for Diversity and Inclusion: From Awareness to Action**

Cat Phan, Digital Services Librarian, University of Wisconsin-Madison

Erin Carrillo, Information Services Librarian, University of Wisconsin-Madison 

Lori Mestre, Professor and Head, Undergraduate Library, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Kristyn Caragher, Graduate student, Graduate School of Library and Information Science, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
 
_This panel presentation will describe how two University Libraries developed aspects of programming, training, and a
 plan to integrate diversity efforts into staffing and services. Phan and Carrillo will detail their Diversity Task 
 Force efforts and Mestre and Caragher will share the Blackboard Collaborate modules and workshop series for anti-oppression and microaggressions training that were developed. They each will describe methodologies used, findings, recommendations, specific actions, and suggestions for determining accountability. They will also share the lessons learned, and facilitate a discussion on challenges moving forward to help library faculty and staff develop competencies to promote diversity and inclusion in our workplaces, and to move beyond awareness to action.  _
 
**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization
___

**Cultural Aspects and Perspectives in Health Sciences Library Services**

Patricia Bradley, Native and Distance Services Librarian, Health Sciences Library and Informatics Center, University of New Mexico*

Annabelle V Nuñez, Research & Learning Librarian, University of Arizona Health Sciences Library*

Monica Rogers, Division Head, Reference and User Support Services, Health Sciences Library and Informatics Center, University of New Mexico

Patricia Montiel-Overall, Associate Professor, University of Arizona School of Information

Verónica Reyes-Escudero, Associate Librarian/Borderlands Curator, University of Arizona Libraries

(*In attendance)

_Understanding cultural health values and beliefs is an important aspect to integrate when delivering library 
services to diverse communities. This presentation will feature a discussion on the successful outreach services 
designed to reach Native nations in New Mexico inspired by the National Library of Medicine’s Exhibit, “Native Voices.” Additionally, an embedded librarian will discuss her approach to incorporate Latino cultural assets as a framework for providing health information to her clients._

**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Programming, Outreach, and Advocacy; Personnel, Management, and Organization

___

**Diversity Standards in Action: How Do We Practice & Value Cultural Competencies?**

Mario Macías, Librarian, Los Angeles Pierce College 

Melissa Cardenas-Dow, Reference & Instruction Librarian, University of California, Riverside

Jenny Yap, Librarian, Berkeley City College

Jessica Davila Greene, STEM Librarian, Team Leader, Claremont Colleges Library

Eva Rios-Alvarado, Adjunct Librarian, Mt. SAC, GCC, & ELAC 

Susan C. Luévano, Anthropology, Ethnic, Women and Gender Studies Librarian, California State University Long Beach

Jayati Chaudhuri, Instruction & Reference Librarian, California State University, Los Angeles

_A panel of librarians will unpack the Diversity Standards developed by the Racial and Ethnic Diversity Committee of 
ACRL. How do we envision ourselves as culturally competent? How do we engage with these cultural competencies and how
 do we assess our endeavors through these Diversity Standards? What if our institutions or colleagues have not embraced the Standards? How are cultural competencies valued--both at the individual and/or institutional level? Join this interactive conversation modeled by the World Café method. _

**Format:** World Cafe method | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization

___

**Grow Your Community: An Exploration of Peer Mentoring for People of Color**

Annie Pho, Inquiry and Instruction Librarian, University of California - Los Angeles

Ariana Santiago, Instruction Librarian, University of Houston 

Eva Rios-Alvarado, Adjunct Librarian/Professor, Mt. San Antonio College, Glendale Community College & East Los Angeles College 

Mara Cabrera, Librarian I (Teen Services), Santa Monica Public Library 

Nancy Olmos Head, Metadata & Content Management, Norris Medical Library - University of Southern California 

Dr. Rebecca Davis, Information Services Librarian, Jennifer Ann Wilson Dental Library - University of Southern California 

Sojourna Cunningham, Social Science and Assessment Librarian, University of Richmond

Tarida Anantachai, Learning Commons Librarian, Syracuse University

_We will showcase examples of grassroots approaches to creating formal and informal peer mentoring groups. Peer 
mentoring led by people of color is an approach to mentorship that creates safe spaces and the ability to define a 
professional and personal identity. We will also address the challenges and opportunities presented by such models, including their effects on early career development. Join us as we discuss perspectives in creating diversity networks for collaborative growth._

**Format:** Roundtable/Panel hybrid | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization

___

**Library Associations Working for Diversity**

_This session features two presentations on what two library association groups are doing to advance diversity and 
inclusion._

**ACRL Diversity Standards Revisited: Intersectional Approach to Cultural Competency**

Kenny Garcia, Reference and Instruction Librarian, California State University - Monterey Bay

Tarida Anantachai, Learning Commons Librarian, Syracuse University

Martha A. Parker,Digital Services Librarian, University of Arkansas - Fayetteville 

Megan Watson, Research & Instruction/Education Librarian, University of Washington Bothell & Cascadia College

_The Association of College and Research Libraries (ACRL) Diversity Committee has taken up the task of revising the 
ACRL Diversity Standards for greater inclusivity. Initial feedback was gathered through a survey in the summer of 2015. This roundtable will discuss the rationale behind revising the standards, speak to the changing organizational climate in academic libraries around diversity, and share best practices on how to engage with cultural competencies at an academic library._

**Format:** Roundtable | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization
  
**We Shall Not Give Up the Fight: Lessons Learned by the ALA Task Force on Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion**

Melissa Cardenas-Dow, Reference & Instruction Librarian, University of California, Riverside

Trevor A. Dawes, Associate University Librarian, Washington University in St. Louis

Martin Garnar, Dean, Kraemer Family Library, University of Colorado Colorado Springs

Alanna Aiko Moore, Sociology, Ethnic Studies and Gender Studies Librarian, University of California, San Diego

Mark Puente, Director of Diversity and Leadership Programs, Association of Research Libraries

_After an intensive two-year process of engagement, reflection, and discernment, the ALA Task Force on Equity, 
Diversity, and Inclusion made recommendations for how the world largest library association can promote and support 
the principles of equity, diversity, and inclusion within the association, the library profession, and the larger world. A panel of task force members will share their experiences of grappling with these issues, review their final recommendations, and give advice on crafting diversity plans. _

**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization

___

**Recruiting and Retaining a Diverse Workforce: Challenges and Opportunities**

Cheryl Beredo, Kheel Center Director, Cornell University

Jade Alburo, Librarian for Southeast Asian and Pacific Islands Studies, UCLA

Tessa Dover, PhD student, Self & Social Identity Lab, University of California, Santa Barbara

April Hathcock, Scholarly Communications Librarian, New York University Libraries

Mark A. Puente, Director of Diversity and Leadership Programs, Association of Research Libraries
 
_This roundtable will facilitate a constructive conversation about the challenges and opportunities in our 
profession’s attempts to recruit and retain a diverse workforce. Panelists and audience members will discuss the 
issues involved, successes, and shortcomings in work at organizational, inter-institutional, and national levels. Participants will have an opportunity to learn about diversity initiatives in different contexts, discuss the merits of different approaches, and develop an understanding of what a successful program might look like in their context. _
 
**Format:** Roundtable | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization

___

**Scaling Up: The Next Level of Diversity and Inclusion Training**

Tahirah Akbar-Williams, Education and Information Studies Librarian, University of Maryland, College Park

Cynthia Sorrell Arabic & Persian Studies Librarian, Assistant Manager of Collections University of Maryland, College Park

Wanda Brown, Director of Library Services, Winston-Salem State University

Hubert Womack, Instruction and Outreach Librarian, Wake Forest University - Z. Smith Reynolds Library

_This presentation will address diversity and inclusion training on two fronts: 1) future librarians and 2) student 
workers._

**Diversity Immersion Institute: Teaching Library Students About Diverse Populations**

_The Diversity Immersion Institute is a program created at the University of Maryland, College Park to educate future
 librarians about diversity issues.  This seven day Institute will expose future librarians to issues of diversity 
 and inclusion via a series of activities, such as, readings, journaling, introspection, group discussions and feedback from diverse librarians of color.  The purpose of this Institute is to allow individuals who have not been exposed to diverse populations a chance to explore the myriad of diversity issues they will encounter in the workforce and in life. Future librarians will also get an opportunity to teach sessions with faculty of color and create and execute programs for students of color.  Moreover, this program will help future librarians understand how they can become advocates of issues of diversity within their professional lives. _

**“Serving Diverse Populations”: A Diversity, Inclusion, and Service Workshop Model for Library Student Assistants**

_The Z. Smith Reynolds Library at Wake Forest University values the library as a place where everyone is welcome, and
 is committed to providing faculty and staff with ample opportunities for diversity and inclusion training. The ZSR 
 Library decided to take this one step further and offer this training to our 200+ student workers. Our presentation will describe the student learning session entitled “Serving Diverse Populations” and the exercises we designed._

**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization

___

**Turning Commitment into Action: Creating a Successful Diversity Plan for Your Library**

Kathryn Kjaer, Head, Library Human Resources, University of California, Irvine Libraries 

Sheree Baugh, Marketing & Donor Relations Assistant, University of California, Irvine Libraries 

Azadeh Vosoughian, Organizational Development, Assessment, and Grants Analyst, University of California, Irvine Libraries 

_This workshop will explore several aspects of developing and implementing an organizational diversity plan. The 
presenters will share information on existing library diversity plans as well as lessons learned from their recent 
planning experience at the University of California, Irvine Libraries. The workshop will include small group breakout sessions in which participants will discuss and explore issues faced by libraries that aspire to create and support a culture of diversity and inclusive excellence. _

**What We Do Matters: KU Libraries and Social Justice**

Sofia Leung, Learning Studio Librarian, University of Kansas

Mike Broadwell, Executive Director of Administrative Services, University of Kansas 

Tami Albin, Associate Librarian, University of Kansas 

Sean Barker, Program Coordinator for the Office of Scholarly Communication and Copyright, University of Kansas

_This panel of staff, faculty, and administrators from the University of Kansas Libraries, offers perspectives on 
meeting the challenges posed by student activists. We will discuss how our response to a town hall forum on race 
developed and our efforts to create a multi-faceted approach to integrating social justice into our organizational structure. We will end with facilitated group discussions on how others might attempt to change their institutional cultures and consider potential challenges._

**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization

___

**Why We Stay: The Motivation of Veteran Underrepresented Minority Academic Librarians**

Antonia P. Olivas, Ed.D., Education & Sociology Librarian, California State University San Marcos

Shannon D. Jones, Director of Libraries, Medical University of South Carolina

Binh P. Le, Associate Librarian/2015-16 Administrative Fellow, The Pennsylvania State University

_For years stories of why underrepresented minorities leave the profession have dominated library literature.  
Panelists will discuss the challenges they have faced in the profession but also discuss their motivations to stay 
and seek leadership opportunities in academic libraries.  These veteran librarians will discuss strategies that have worked for them and what advice they would give to others that could help increase retention numbers of underrepresented minority academic librarians._

**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization

___

**Diversity Inquiry – Bridging the Divide Between Diversity Survey Results and Actionable Understanding **

Cristela Garcia-Spitz, Digital Library Development Project Manager, ClimateQUAL Implementation Team Co-Chair, UC San Diego Library

Heather Hayashi, Public Services Assistant, ClimateQUAL Implementation Team Member, UC San Diego Library

Cindy Ingold, Gender Studies and Multicultural Services Librarian, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign

Brian W. Keith, Associate Dean for Administrative Services & Faculty Affairs George A. Smathers Libraries, University of Florida 

Jennifer E. Knievel, Associate Professor / Director of Arts & Humanities, University of Colorado Boulder Libraries

Michael M. Rawls, Budget and Assessment Director, Virginia Commonwealth University Libraries 

Leslie J. Reynolds , Associate Professor / Senior Associate Dean, University of Colorado Boulder Libraries

_This presentation will cover climate assessments from start to finish. Panelists from five institutions will discuss
 lessons learned for each step: motivations for a climate assessment; instrument selection; building trust and 
 encouraging participation; interpreting results and communicating results; prioritizing attention areas; interventions; and outcome assessment. Presenters will address a variety of climate assessment tools including ClimateQUAL® and home-grown surveys, and an array of data visualizations, communication methods, results assessments, and diversity action plans._

**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization

___

**Exploring Identity and Culture in Libraries Using Practitioner Inquiry and Cultural Humility**

This session features two presentations about different ways of learning about and dealing with diversity.

**Discerning Our Diverse Selves: Practitioner Inquiry for Librarian Praxis**

Vanessa Irvin, Assistant Professor, Library and Information Science Program, University of Hawai’i at Mānoa 

_An important aspect of cultural competence for library service includes a librarian’s consideration for his/her own 
identity constructs that impact one’s praxis at work. Practitioner Inquiry is a reflective process that can heighten 
culturally competent professional practices. This session explores ways in which practitioner inquiry opens up critical space where librarians can collaboratively explore critical questions that when reflected upon as group process, can serve as significant contribution to librarians offering culturally competent services._

**Mastering Competencies or Practicing Humility:  Contemplating Culture in Libraries**

David Hurley, Assistant Professor, College of the University Libraries & Learning Sciences, University of New Mexico 

Sarah Kosteleck, Assistant Professor, College of the University Libraries & Learning Sciences, University of New Mexico

Lori Townsend, Assistant Professor, College of the University Libraries & Learning Sciences, University of New Mexico

_With ethnic tension and related issues of privilege, equity and structural discrimination making news on campuses 
and in communities around the nation, many organizations are considering “cultural competency” programs. Yet cultural
 competence is itself a problematic concept. In this session, we introduce the concept of cultural humility, an alternative to cultural competence that comes from the medical fields, explore how it differs from competence and its potential benefits to libraries of all kinds._

**Format:** Individual Presentations | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization

___


**Identity and Librarianship: Race, Ethnicity, and Normativity in Academic Libraries and LIS Diversity Initiatives**
This session features two thought-provoking presentations on identity in/and librarianship from two different perspectives. 

**Identity at Play: Exploring Race and Ethnicity in Academic Libraries and Beyond**

Juleah Swanson, Head of Acquisition Services, University of Colorado Boulder

Azusa Tanaka, Japanese Studies Librarian, University of Washington

Isabel Gonzalez-Smith, Undergraduate Experience Librarian, University of Illinois Chicago
 
_Why do mentoring programs that pair Black male librarians see success? Why does a Muslim student approach a 
librarian wearing a hijab first at the reference desk? Can an instruction session become enriched when a librarian 
shares personal stories about being first-generation? This panel presentation is an immersion into racial and ethnic identity theory, applied as a framework, in order for participants to develop skills and vocabulary to articulate, recognize, and apply at their institutions._
 
**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Personnel, Management and Organization

___

**Leading by Example: A Look at Successful LIS Diversity Initiatives**

Denise Kane, Reference & Instruction Librarian, University of California Riverside

Julie Mason, Science Reference Librarian, University of California Riverside 

Angela Boyd, Librarian for International Organizations / NGO Documents, Psychological & Brain Sciences, University of California Santa Barbara  

Gina Macaluso, Assistant Professor, University of Arizona School of Information 

Yamila El-Khayat, Assistant Librarian, University of Arizona Health Sciences Library

Maurita Baldock, Assistant Librarian, University of Arizona Libraries Special Collections

Verónica Reyes-Escudero, Associate Librarian, University of Arizona Libraries Special Collections

Amber Mathewson, Deputy Director, Pima County Public Library

Charlene Maxey-Harris, Associate Professor of Libraries and Research and Information Services Chair, University of Nebraska-Lincoln

Toni Anaya, Associate Professor of Libraries and Instruction Coordinator, University of Nebraska-Lincoln 

_Since 2001 initiatives aiming to increase the number of librarians from ethnically/culturally underrepresented 
groups flourished as libraries raced to meet the diverse needs of their users.  National programs such as Knowledge 
River and Spectrum, and University of California Santa Barbara’s innovative and then controversial Library Fellowship program, and regional programs such as University of California Riverside’s Inland Empire LEADS (Librarians Educated to Advance Diversity & Service), aim to shape the future of librarianship and libraries. This program will present research on these programs, discuss the long term impact they had on the face of profession and how developing partnerships play a vital role in their success._
 
**Format:**  Panel | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization

___

**Maybe We’re the Problem: Bias, Blindspots, and the Politics of Experience**

Steve Whitley, Visiting Coordinator & Lecturer, Intergroup Dialogue,University of Illinois at Chicago

Chloe Gurin-Sands, Teaching Assistant, Intergroup Dialogue, University of Illinois at Chicago

_The UIC Dialogue Initiative runs courses and co-curriculars for students, faculty, and staff at UIC centered around 
understanding identity, power/privilege, and bias. This hands-on workshop will give participants a chance to 
experience dialogue and engage in some of the activities we do in the classroom. Our activities will focus on your social identities and how they carry over to your work as a librarian. _

**Format:** Workshop | **Track:** Personnel, Management, and Organization; Challenging Topics

## Programming, Outreach, & Advocacy

**Academic Libraries Spearheading Diversity and Cultural Initiatives on University Campuses**

Susan M. Banoun, Associate Senior Librarian / Head, Electronic Resources Department, University of Cincinnati

Don Jason, Assistant Librarian, Health Sciences Informationist, University of Cincinnati

Thura Mack, Coordinator for Community Learning Services and Diversity Programs, University of Tennessee

Kenya Flash, Assistant Professor Diversity Resident, University of Tennessee

Essraa Nawar, Coordinator of Development and Chair of the Arts, Exhibits and Events Committee, Leatherby Libraries, Chapman University

Raymond Pun, First Year Student Success Librarian, California State University, Fresno

Tiewei (Lucy) Liu, Metadata and Catalog Librarian, California State University, Fresno

Hiromi Kubo, Public Services Librarian, California State University, Fresno

Arturo Mendoza, Library Services Specialist, California State University, Fresno

_These 4 Academic Libraries will showcase successful diversity and cultural programs and outreach initiatives. Having
 these programs and initiatives postures our libraries as intellectual, social, and cultural environments as well as 
 safe welcoming spaces for students and faculty. The presenters will share their best recipes for programming success._

**Format:** Lightning Round | **Track:** Programming, Outreach, and Advocacy

___

**Community Outreach and Collaboration in Academic Libraries**

Lae’l Hughes-Watkins, University Archivist, Assistant, Kent State University

Nancy Liliana Godoy-Powell, Librarian and Archivist, Chicano/a Research Collection, Arizona State University Libraries

Rachel Leket-Mor, Associate Librarian, Religious Studies, Philosophy, Jewish Studies, Medieval and Renaissance Studies, Arizona State University Libraries

Joyce Martin, Curator and Associate Librarian, Labriola National American Indian Data Center, Arizona State University Libraries

Qian Liu, Associate Librarian, Chinese & Korean Studies Librarian, Arizona State University Libraries

_Kent State University Archivist will highlight how their Department of Special Collections and Archives’ Black 
Campus Movement (BCM) project is helping to provide opportunities for collection development and fostering 
opportunities to work with faculty on integrating primary resources highlighting under-documented communities into instructional design. Arizona State University Librarians will illuminate community engagement through an examination of outreach activities within their respective unique collections; the Labriola National American Indian Data Center, the Chicano/a Research Collection, the Jewish Studies Collection, and the China Studies Collection. Participants will learn how to engage different demographics via acquisition, instructional design, exhibits, grant projects, public events, social media, web applications, and digital repositories._

**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Programming, Outreach, and Advocacy
___

**Cultural Aspects and Perspectives in Health Sciences Library Services**

Patricia Bradley, Native and Distance Services Librarian, Health Sciences Library and Informatics Center, University of New Mexico*

Annabelle V Nuñez, Research & Learning Librarian, University of Arizona Health Sciences Library*

Monica Rogers, Division Head, Reference and User Support Services, Health Sciences Library and Informatics Center, University of New Mexico

Patricia Montiel-Overall, Associate Professor, University of Arizona School of Information

Verónica Reyes-Escudero, Associate Librarian/Borderlands Curator, University of Arizona Libraries

(*In attendance)

_Understanding cultural health values and beliefs is an important aspect to integrate when delivering library 
services to diverse communities. This presentation will feature a discussion on the successful outreach services 
designed to reach Native nations in New Mexico inspired by the National Library of Medicine’s Exhibit, “Native Voices.” Additionally, an embedded librarian will discuss her approach to incorporate Latino cultural assets as a framework for providing health information to her clients._

**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Programming, Outreach, and Advocacy; Personnel, Management, and Organization
___

**Discovering and Accommodating the Needs of Target Communities in Academic Libraries**

Raymundo Andrade, Programming Librarian, Loyola Marymount University

Jamie Hazlitt, Librarian for Collection Development and Evaluation, Loyola Marymount University

Lorna Dawes, Assistant Professor, University of Nebraska-Lincoln

Sally Romero, Librarian, Los Angeles Trade-Technical College

Yayo Umetsubo, Liaison Librarian for Arts and Social Sciences, Education, and Unama'ki College, Cape Breton University

Sabrina Wong, Student Engagement Librarian, SAIT Polytechnic

_Academic libraries are continuously exploring different methods on how to reach and meet the needs of not only 
“traditional” students but also target communities to provide a sense of diversity and inclusion._

_•	Andrade and Hazlitt will talk about a pilot project to offer basic computer classes to facilities staff at LMU._

_•	Dawes will illustrate how a Culturally Responsive pedagogy is used to teach ethical use of information in a 
seminar for International Students._

_•	Romero will discuss collaboration between LATTC library and their Child Development Center to facilitate lifelong
 learning and love for libraries._

_•	Umetsubo will share the process of creating and developing library instruction videos by incorporating indigenous
 students' input as part of her research project._

_•	Wong will discuss how to adapt library engagement activities for a trade school culture that values practicality,
 applied education, and workplace readiness._
 
**Format:** Panel/Lightning Round | **Track:** Programming, Outreach, and Advocacy
___

**Do We Walk the Walk, or Just Talk the Talk? Library Practices Around Intersectional Needs**

Jeanie Austin, Ph.D. student, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Graduate School of Library and Information Science

Christina J. Woo, Research Librarian, University of California, Irvine
 
_This panel examines how library practices represent racial, gender, and sexual norms through core functions, 
including collections, instruction, and programming. The presenters analyze how libraries reproduce and resist racism
 and heteronormativity, and how those productions of knowledge reflect or reject the larger communities. How does your library approach immigrants'/migrants' needs?  How do LGBTQ+ youth evaluate library materials specific to their experience and identity?  How do you include the under-represented in your library's spaces, webpages, and publications?_
 
**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Programming, Outreach, and Advocacy; Collections and Access
___

**Educating the Educators: Proactive Approaches to the Inclusive Classroom**

Shannon Simpson, Student Engagement and Information Fluency Librarian, Johns Hopkins University 

Macie Hall, Senior Instructional Designer, Johns Hopkins University

Paula M Smith, Associate Librarian, Penn State Abington 

Dolores Rafter-Arevalo, Coordinator, Office of Global Programs, Penn State Abington

_As demographics and attention on our college campuses are finally shifting to reflect our increasingly diverse 
world, our classrooms must meet the needs and challenge the assumptions of both students and faculty from myriad 
experiences and backgrounds. This interactive and resource filled session will present approaches by 2 institutions that are working to foster proactive classroom approaches to inclusion. The Global Awareness Dialogue Project (GADP) at Penn State Abington is a faculty development initiative, aimed at increasing the collective cultural understanding and competence of the faculty while examining the changing dynamics in the classroom space. TILE: The Toolkit for Inclusive Learning Environments developed at John Hopkins University contains engaging pedagogically based classroom activities designed for faculty to help students interact more meaningfully in myriad areas of diversity, through their chosen discipline. By educating the educators, both projects present ways in which inclusivity can be thought of and integrated into the classroom in an intentional rather than reactive manner. Presenters will share with participants their accumulated resources and how they can partner with campus stakeholders to help create inclusive learning environments._

**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Programming, Outreach, and Advocacy
___

**From “My Block” to “Born on the Rez”: A Linguistic Analysis of lyrics by 2Pac, Frank Waln, Litefoot, Nataanii Means,
 and Night Shield**
 
Teresa Y. Neely, Ph.D., Associate Professor, College of the University Libraries & Learning Sciences

Sarah Kostelecky (Zuni Pueblo), MLS, Assistant Professor, College of the University Libraries & Learning Sciences 

Monica Etsitty Dorame (Navajo Nation), MPA, Library Services Coordinator, College of the University Libraries & Learning Sciences 

Jorge Ricardo López-McKnight, MLS, Assistant Professor, College of the University Libraries & Learning Sciences

_The lack of consistent wide-spread media coverage of recent events in North America involving violence against 
Native Americans and African Americans in the U.S., led the authors to closely examine where, and by whom these 
events were being reported.  A review of media sources revealed uneven coverage of recent tragic events. The researchers undertook a project to compare and analyze the lyrics of Native American rappers and Tupac Shakur, an African American rapper whose lyrics reflected his life experiences._

**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Programming, Outreach, and Advocacy
___

**Information Literacy Through Different Lenses**
This session features two innovative ways of teaching information literacy:
 
**Information Literacy Through Personal Narrative: Women’s Studies and the Human Library**

Kara Blizzard, Public Services Librarian, University of Alberta - Augustana Campus

Nancy Goebel, Head Librarian, University of Alberta - Augustana Campus

Yvonne Becker, Associate Professor of Physical Education and Women's Studies, University of Alberta - Augustana Campus

_This presentation describes a library/faculty collaboration on an undergraduate women’s studies assignment: students
 begin research by visiting the Augustana human library and “reading” human books who speak about firsthand 
 experiences relating to sex, gender, and sexuality. Past topics have included eating disorders, being transgender, bisexuality, and sexual abuse. Students reflect that the assignment provides them with a unique, immersive learning experience by allowing them to engage with both oral narratives and traditional scholarly information sources._

**Visualizing #blacklivesmatter: Exploring Critical Visual Literacy through Instagram**

Stacy R. Williams, Head, Architecture and Fine Arts Library, University of Southern California

_This paper will examine visual literacy within the context of using Instagram. Instagram provides a platform for 
sharing and discovering images from all over the world. Within the posted images, account holders share details about
 their images and add hashtags. Followers are allowed to like, discuss, and provide additional hashtags to a post. In the case of #blacklivesmatter, how can images with this hashtag provide strategies for applying visual literacy activities in library instruction sessions?_

**Format:** Individual Presentations | **Track:** Programming, Outreach, and Advocacy
___

**‘Let Us Work Together’: Academic Libraries and Social Justice on Campus**

Sara Arnold-Garza, Research & Instruction Librarian, Towson University

Dave Ellenwood, Reference and Instruction Librarian, University of Washington Bothell / Cascadia College

Tami Garrard, Access Services Manager, University of Washington Bothell / Cascadia College

Cindy Ingold, Gender Studies and Multicultural Services Librarian, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

Sofia Leung, Learning Studio Librarian, University of Kansas

Megan Watson, Reference and Instruction Librarian, University of Washington Bothell / Cascadia College
 
_A new wave of student activism reminds us that libraries are central to the lives of students as a place of study, 
socializing, rest, and engagement with conversations larger than themselves. In this workshop, we will share examples
 of libraries challenging and transcending a transactional model to forge solidarities with campus communities. Join us to discuss critical frameworks around ally-ship and solidarity, and to collectively develop strategies for engaging in transformative social justice work._

**Format:** Workshop | **Track:** Programming, Outreach, and Advocacy; Challenging Topics
___

**Making Space for Diversity: Inclusiveness in Library Makerspaces**

James Cheng, NCSU Libraries Fellow, North Carolina State University Libraries

Lauren Di Monte, NCSU Libraries Fellow, North Carolina State University Libraries

Sharona Ginsberg, Learning Technologies Librarian, SUNY Oswego

Emily Mitchell, Webmaster Librarian, SUNY Oswego

Madison Sullivan, NCSU Libraries Fellow, North Carolina State University Libraries  

_Libraries are building makerspaces and developing making programs to broaden access to digital and physical 
fabrication, and to further their technological and informational literacy programs.  This panel discussion will 
examine maker initiatives emerging from public and academic libraries, and within the broader DIY movement. Presentations will focus on how to build inclusive communities within makerspaces, how to develop programming that addresses a range of populations, and discuss strategies for fostering diversity, inclusion, and accessibility._

**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Programming, Outreach, and Advocacy
___

**Making the Invisible Visible: Diversity, Dialogue and Multicultural Awareness Through Digital Projects.**

Yemisi Dina, Associate Librarian/Head of Public Services, Osgoode Hall Law School, York University

Norda Majekodunmi, Associate Librarian/ Head, Scott Research & Collections, York University Libraries

Erin White, Web Systems Librarian, Virginia Commonwealth University

Alice Campbell, Digital Outreach and Special Projects Librarian, Virginia Commonwealth University (cannot attend, but is a co-author)

_Librarians from the Virginia Commonwealth Libraries, United States and York University/Osgoode Hall Law School 
Libraries, Canada have developed digital projects to build awareness about diversity, racial discrimination, 
religious persecution and multicultural communities. This combined presentation discusses the unique ways digital projects help us expand the library/librarians' role in promoting widespread, meaningful dialogue, historical awareness, and preservation of indigenous knowledge to diverse audiences._

**Format:** Pane | **Track:** Collections and Access; Programming, Outreach, and Advocacy
___

**Memories of Migration**

Jessica Bell, Assistant Project Director, Santa Ana Public Library, City of Santa Ana

José Guillermo Naranjo, Community Outreach Specialist, and Linguistic Liaison, Santa Ana Public Library, City of Santa Ana

David Prieto, Technology Services Coordinator, Santa Ana Public Library, City of Santa Ana

Dulce Saavedra, Community Outreach Specialist, Santa Ana Public Library, City of Santa Ana

_The first panelist will review the objectives, concepts, and benefits memory preservation programming provides for 
migrant communities. The second panelist will discuss the methods of outreach that should be employed by successor 
institutions and agencies. The third panelist will discuss the role of technology in outreach, and building youth skillsets. The final panelist will underscore the utilitarianism of this program in providing information to migrant communities toward navigating their migration process, and seeking change in areas where opportunities for policy improvement may exist._

**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Programming, Outreach, and Advocacy

___

**Promoting Academic Success Among Student Veterans through Libraries**

Win Shih, Director of Integrated Library Systems, University of Southern California

Eduardo Tinoco, Business Librarian, University of Southern California 

Michael Habata, Librarian, Los Angeles Pierce College

Lisa Valdez, Librarian, Los Angeles Pierce College
 
_Librarians from USC will report a survey of academic libraries on current services and resources offered to student 
veterans, as well as to assess student veterans’ information needs and identify challenges and barriers of working 
with them. One example took place at L.A. Pierce College, where the library presented programming related to the veteran experience tied in to the college’s One Book-One Campus program. This resulted in greater outreach to the campus veteran community through student curriculum and campus events._

**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Programming, Outreach, and Advocacy

___

**Wikipedia: A Bridge from Basic Markup to the Research Cycle**

Lia Friedman, Learning Services Director, UC San Diego

Gayatri Singh, Reference & Information Services Coordinator, and Librarian for Communication, UC San Diego  

Cynthia Mari Orozco, Student Services Librarian, California State University Long Beach

Annie Pho, Inquiry and Instruction Librarian for Peer-to-Peer Services and Public Programming, UC Los Angeles

_Wikipedia is a widely-used resource for information, but there’s always room for improvement when it comes to 
underrepresented entry subjects, especially in academic environments. Many instructors hesitate to use Wikipedia as a
 trusted source, but bringing students, faculty and community members together at Wiki Edit-a-thons to understand how these pages are created and by whom (predominately white men), and then to create new pages featuring diverse or underrepresented people/subjects, is a deep dive into the research cycle. If possible, create or bring your Wikipedia log in and laptop so we can do some hands on editing. Beginners are welcome._

**Format:** Workshop | **Track:** Programming, Outreach, and Advocacy
___

**The Library as a Connector: Creating Collaborative Outreach Opportunities for Diverse Student Populations**

UNLV Presenters: Amanda Melilli, Head Curriculum Materials Library; Rosan Mitola, Outreach Librarian

UCD Presenters: Robin L. Gustafson, Head Access & Delivery Services;  Roberto C. Delgadillo, Research Support Services Librarian; Cirilo Cortez, Director Strategic Chicana/o and Latina/o Retention Initiatives at UC Davis; Michelle Roppeau, Ph.D., Director of Academic Services, UC Davis Athletics

_The University Libraries at UC Davis and UNLV will share four separate outreach efforts designed to contribute to a 
campus goal of diversity and inclusion. The presentation will emphasize the importance of the library as not only a 
connector of students and resources but also a pillar of support of engagement and inclusion. Each initiative reinforces the Library’s role as the academic heart of the university and a place of community. This panel presentation will review each initiative, how each promoted student engagement and inclusion, and lessons learned._
 
**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Programming, Outreach, and Advocacy

**Scholarly Communication as a Tool for Social Justice and Diversity**

Charlotte Roh, Scholarly Communication Librarian, University of San Francisco

Emily Drabinski, Coordinator of Library Instruction, Long Island University Brooklyn

Harrison Inefuku, Digital Repository Coordinator, Iowa State University

_Countless studies and personal narratives have demonstrated that cultural, racial, and gender bias influence 
important aspects of academia, including in traditional book and journal publishing. Scholarly communications and LIS
 publishing can challenge the traditional modes of publishing both in format and content. Panelists will discuss their work in this area, addressing topics like race, culture, sexuality, and gender in formats like print books, online journals, and institutional repositories. _

**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Programming, Outreach, and Advocacy

___

**Services and Studies to Support First-Generation College Students**
 
Stacy Brinkman, Art & Architecture Librarian, Miami University

Josefine Smith, Humanities Librarian, Dickinson College

Jennifer Natale, Academic Resident Librarian, Miami University

Christina J. Woo, Research Librarian, University of California, Irvine

Ernesto Hernandez, Jr., Research Librarian, University of California, Irvine
 
_First-generation (FG) college students cannot turn to their parents for information about the college experience. 
Where do they go instead, and what challenges do they face? The panelists, from a small, medium-size, and large 
institution, explore: the needs and information literacy behaviors of FG students; a cross-campus study identifying differences between FG students and their non-FG peers in their information-seeking behaviors, library anxiety, and self-efficacy; and campus-wide and library efforts to support FG students._
 
**Format:** Panel | **Track:** Programming, Outreach, and Advocacy

___

**Strategies for Creating Diverse Programming and Spaces in Research Libraries**

Marian Fragola, Director of Program Planning and Outreach, NCSU Libraries

Lauren Di Monte, NCSU Libraries Fellow, NCSU Libraries 

_This strengths-based workshop will help participants develop inclusive spaces and diverse programming. Drawing on 
three case studies, NCSU librarians will share approaches for identifying and solving problems of access and 
representation. We will split into small groups to discuss participants’ campus and library climates, and workshop ideas to take back to their institutions. Participants will leave with strategies for creating sustainable and inclusive programming, spaces, and content for research libraries of all sizes. _

**Format:** Workshop | **Track:** Programming, Outreach, and Advocacy

___

**We Need Diverse Books Everywhere: Addressing Diversity Across Multiple Spaces**

Sarah Park Dahlen, Assistant Professor, Master of Library and Information Science Program, St. Catherine University 

Robin F. Kurz, Assistant Professor, School of Library and Information Management, Emporia State University 

Other panelists: TBD 

_Youth-focused LIS educators, librarians, and authors will facilitate this roundtable to address how everyone can 
harness the power of the WNDB movement toward more inclusive literature, curriculum, programming, and partnerships. 
After the facilitators share their own work within the field, participants will share successful ideas and lessons learned from challenging experiences and brainstorm creative ways we might make progress with the WNDB movement in the future in and across our various spaces and communities. _

**Format:** Roundtable | **Track:** Programming, Outreach, and Advocacy






